{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20320\viewh13640\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 NES CHR Editor\

\b0\fs24 \ulnone http://www.ninjasftw.com/squirrel2/nes_chr/\
\'a9 2007-2013 Squirrel\
\

\b\fs36 Contents\

\b0\fs24 	1. What is it?\
	2. Requirements\
	3. How to Use\
	4. Errors and Warnings\
	5. Uninstalling\
	6. Version History\
	7. Closing\
\

\b\fs36 1. What is it?\
\

\b0\fs24 NES CHR Editor is a graphics editor for Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) games.  Graphics in NES games are typically stored in the character (CHR) bank of a NES game (ROM). They are 8x8 pixels in size, and can use up to 4 different colors.\
\
This program will let you edit these graphics using a simple point-and-click interface, rather than manually decoding the graphics, hand-editing them, and re-encoding them.\
\

\b\fs36 2. Requirements
\b0 \

\fs24 \
All you need is a NES ROM or CHR dump you wish to edit. NES ROMs must be in the iNES format (.nes extension) with a valid header, and CHR dumps must be a multiple of 8,192 bytes (the size of 1 CHR bank).\
\
This program is an Intel binary, and requires an Intel Mac to run. There is a separate version for PowerPC users available on the program's website.\
\

\b\fs36 3. How to Use\

\b0\fs24 \
First, use the CHR Picker window to choose a graphic to edit. Notice that the Next section changes to show that the next graphic you pick will be loaded in the Upper Right Tile. You can change this by clicking in the Next section. Give it a try - it's pretty self explanatory.\
\
Once you have the graphic you want loaded, simply click (or drag) inside the Editor section to draw. Change the color you're drawing with by clicking in the Color Picker section. Right-Click in the Color Picker to change the colors the program draws with. You may also change the color you are drawing with via the keyboard. The default keys are z, x, c, and v. You may change they keys in the Preferences window in the Apple menu.\
\

\b NOTE: the colors shown in the editor are not a representation of the colors the game will use. The colors that the game will use are entirely up to the game.
\b0 \
\
Once you're done editing, save your changes by clicking the Save icon (looks like a floppy) in the respective section. Or, if you want to start over, click the Reload icon (looks like a folder). To actually save your changes to the ROM, choose Save (or Save As...) from the File Menu. The Save icons only save your changes within the program.\
\
Copy and Paste functions are available as well. The Copy icon (looks like some documents) will copy the indicated Tile to the Clipboard. Likewise, the Paste icon (looks like a clipboard) will paste a Tile to the indicated Editor Tile.\
\

\b NOTE: the Copy and Paste functions really do use the Clipboard, so please be careful you don't overwrite important data you've copied. Also, this program stores Clipboard data in a special format. Do not expect to be able to paste graphics from an image editor (like Photoshop) into this program.
\b0 \
\
For easier editing, you may disable any Editor Tiles by clicking on the Checkbox next to that Tiles' button area. This should come in handy if you find the extra tiles are distracting. There is also a grid display option which can be turned on/off in the View menu.\
\

\b\fs36 4. Errors and Warnings\

\b0\fs24 \
This program was written with the idea that all graphics are stored in the CHR bank of a ROM. However, this is not always the case. For example, Final Fantasy 2 and 3 (Japan versions) do not have CHR banks. Instead, all graphics are mingled along with program code in the PRG bank. For such ROMS, NES CHR Editor will allow you to edit the PRG bank of a ROM instead, after verifying that you actually want to do this.\
\

\b NOTE: the PRG bank contains NES program code. Modifying this code may cause your ROM to stop working!
\b0 \
\
Your ROMs must be Unlocked in order for you to edit them. Compressed ROMs are not supported, either.\
\

\b\fs36 5. Uninstalling
\b0 \

\fs24 \
To remove this program from your hard drive, there are two files you need to delete. One is the Application itself. The second is the Preferences file, located in ~/Library/Preferences/org.squirrel.neschreditor\
\

\b\fs34 6. Version History
\b0\fs24 \
\
1.3 (3/19/13)\
	Added support for opening CHR dumps.\
\
1.2 (6/29/12)\
	Updated the compiler to support building for Intel, making this the first Intel release. Changed my e-mail address and homepage.\
\
1.1 (8/8/7)\
	GUI Bugfixes\
	Updated the code to prepare for multiple ROM editing\
\
1.0 Final (5/2/07)\
	Initial Release!\
	4-Tile Editing\
	Copy & Paste Functionality\
\
1.0 beta (4/9/07)\
	First Beta release\
\

\b\fs36 7. Closing
\b0 \

\fs24 \
Thanks to the following:\
\
Macscene's Forums - development feedback and suggestions\
boxboy13o - help with icons\
\
Nintendo Entertainment System is a trademark of Nintendo. Nintendo is not affiliated in any way with me or this program.\
}